Hello everyone and welcome to an example solution for logistic regression consulting project.
Let's open up the notebook and get started.
OK here I am at the notebook.
So we have this customer churn see as we filed we want to build a model off of.
And then later on we also want to compare it to this new customers see Espey file.
So we're going to run this.
And let's start a spark session.
So from Paice sparked that sequel we'll import a spark session and then let's create one spark spark
session builder app name and I'm going to call this law Greg consult and then get or create that spark
session.
So we run that cell.
And now it's load in our data our data is just say see every file so we can say SPARC that read cxxviii
and I'm going to grab the customer churn data so it's customer turn that C S V.
And I'm also going to infer schema and I will say that header is equal to true and shook up the schema
of actual data by saying print schema.
And running this.
So here we have the schema we already went over in the previous lecture explaining it so we can also
do say the scribe if you want to see some more information about it.
We're pretty zoomed in right now so we probably get some weird behavior but let's see it out.
So they describe that show because we have close princes here and we can zoom out just a little bit.
See this and we can see here we have 900 counts and it looks like we have 900 counts on all the columns
so we shouldn't be missing any data as long as everything is there we can continue along.
So we're going to do is check out the columns we're going to be working with data that columns we can
zoom in one more wups data that columns and then we want to actually select stuff for the vector assembler.
So I will say from Paice park M-L that feature import the vector assembler and then I'll create my assembler
object and L said equal to vector assembler loops and I want my input columns to be the following.
I'm not going to use names because it's pretty arbitrary.
The age of the customer it's a numeric so might be pretty useful as well as the total purchase.
Maybe whether or not they have an account manager.
I don't expect that to actually help because remember in the data that's randomly assigned but it's
easy enough to include numerically so we can include it.
And then years and number of sites.
So let's select those.
Copy them and then paste them in here and then we make sure that's a close string.
So there are my input columns and the next thing I want to do is select this all to be the output column
of features.
So we'll run that and now that we have our assembler object let's create the output to be equal to assembler.
And then we're going to transform our data.
So we have this output and let's create our final dataset which is just going to be that output.
And all I want to do is select the features and the turn column
so we run that in our ready to actually split this into our training data and our test data.
So we'll call this train churn and then we'll say test chern and set that equal to this final data and
let's do a random split and we'll do a 17:30 split
run that and hour ready to actually perform or logistic regression we'll see say from Paice spark M-L
classification import a logistic regression and then what I'm going to do is create an model for religious
expression.
We'll say L.R. churn is equal to an instance of logistic regression.
And the thing I have to clarify is that my label column will be equal to the chern column.
So we have that going.
The next thing I want to do is actually fit this model to the data.
So we'll call this fitted chern model and I will grab L.R. chern and fit this to my train data which
is trained in.
So that's fitting right now.
And what I can do after this is check out a summary.
So we'll create some variable called training some for training summary and this will be equal to this
fit a term model summary object off of it.
And let's check it out.
I'll call my training some and then call the predictions off of this and then call describe a show and
this is just to explore a little bit you don't have to do this.
You don't want to but I can see here that my prediction mean prediction standard deviation versus my
turn mean insurance standard deviation.
So it would be nice to do.
Here is actually to some evaluation metrics.
So we'll do these evaluation metrics against the M-L live evaluation and our test data.
So we actually do this and is safe from Paice park the M-L evaluation and I'm going to import since
as the binary classification evaluation.
I'll import that and we'll call this new object pred and labels for a prediction labels and that's going
to be equal to our fitted churn model evaluating the test churn data.
Now that I have this press and labels object I can actually grab the predictions off of it so we can
say Pridden label's predictions.
And then I can show the results here.
Let me zoom out so you can see that entire data frame when I run this and I can zoom out one more time
so we can see the whole features.
So have my features call them the chern value that's the true value the actual label the raw prediction
the probability and then the prediction itself.
So we can see here a lot of these predictions are matching up to be zeros which is good.
All of these turn values zero but it looks like we're already missing one here.
So what I want to do is actually use this binary classification evaluator to check the area under the
curve.
So let's do that.
I'm going to continue on here.
Scroll down a little bit and let's zoom back in.
Scroll down and then let's call that binary classification evaluator.
So let's create an object call turn evil and set that equal to binary classification evaluator where
my label column is equal to churn and I can set my prediction column.
So a prediction column equal to prediction so have these two columns here.
Once I have this evaluator object created all I have to do is passen that prediction is data frame we
just worked with.
So the default is area under curve.
So that's going to be my variable name and I will grab this Cherney Valuator object and I will evaluates
the predictions are present and labels and then call predictions off of this run that and then let's
check our Acey to see how we did or a U.S. excuse me.
So looks like we have a point 6:08 value for a you see that's not so bad it's not super great either.
Remember that a value point five will just be as good as randomly guessing.
So now that we see the area under the curve the next step is to try to predict on new data.
So if we scroll all the way back up remember that we have this new customers cxxviii file.
So the area under curve is performing well enough that we can evaluate on this sort of like hold out
data set which essentially doesn't really have label so it's not truly a hold out data.
It's more like a model deployment.
So we'll scroll all the way down here.
And what we're going to do is let's just create this and say predict on new data.
Run that so it will create some sort of final model.
So Final our model and set that equal to our L.R. churn model and I'm going to fit this on all the data
not just my training data or my test data but what I'm going to do is to scroll back up here.
I'm going to fit this on all my final data so I will copy that and then paste it in here.
So are all our final data and then we're going to end up doing is read in that new customer data.
So we'll say new customers is equal to spark read see a city and that's new customers and I'm going
to infer schema to be true as well as headers to be equal to true.
So we're run that and the next thing one do is make sure that new customers is in the same format.
So I can say in your customers the print schema check that out and it looks like everything is exactly
the same format as before.
So that means we're ready to go.
So what I can do is say this test on new customers is going to be equal to my old similar object and
I'm going to transform this new customers object.
So here's my new customers test.
And then the other thing I have to do now is confirm that it has that feature column so I can say test
new customers.
And then we can print schema and they should see a feature column all the way at the end.
And there it is features it's a vector of those features from my assembler object in the beginning and
and next thing I want to do is transform this.
So I'll say final results is equal to that final LR model and I will transform that final data.
Well actually our new data so this new customers CXVII.
So let's make sure that we have that.
It was tested to customers excuse me so test new customers were going to transform that dataset.
Run that and then let's check out the final results.
So if we show these and we can zoom out a little bit you can see here we have all the information.
But what I really care about is the churn prediction which in this case is just called prediction.
And if I wanted to format this nicely I can also grab the names so maybe we can grab the company name
as well.
So showing that here are basically my predictions for the company.
And then these guys.
So my actual data set for this new customers wasn't so big.
In fact we can see from test new customers if we ask for a described method on it and then show the
results there there's actually only six customers here.
So these are our predictions for these customers and whether or not they will churn.
So looks like I predict for these customers are turned.
Meaning these are the customers that I should assign account managers to.
Now if you didn't get the exact same results that's totally okay.
It really depends on the random split.
Hopefully you've got similar results at least half of these should match up to what I have here.
Do you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums but also definitely check out the example
solutions notebook which goes into a lot more detail than what we've shown here.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next section.
Of course.